welcome my name is lisa and now i'm
going to talk about
melancholia
the film begins with an introductory
sequence involving the main characters
and images from space
these virtually still images reveal the
key elements of the film
justina bride in deep melancholy with
birds falling behind her
of a lawn with trees and sundial with
two different shadows
peter bruggles the hunters in the snow
burning the black
horse collapsing in slow motion justine
is a bride being swept along by a river
her wedding dress tangled in plant
matter and finally justine and her
nephew building their magic cave before
melancholia crashes into earth
delayed by their stretch limousine's
difficulty traversing the narrow winding
rural road
newlyweds justine and michael arrive two
hours late for their own wedding
reception at the estate of justine's
sister
claire and her husband john
justine has a dysfunctional family
brother-in-law john
constantly complains about having to pay
for the wedding despite being very
well-off
father dexter is hedonistic and selfish
to the point of narcissism
while mother gabby is brutally jaded
openly declaring her hatred of marriages
during her wedding speech
no one ever asks what justine wants or
why she is unhappy
but throughout the dinner she is praised
for being beautiful
claire urges justine to hide her
debilitating melancholy from her new
husband michael
justine finds several excuses to flee
the wedding reception
and wander the estate by herself at one
point
while the guests stand around waiting
for the cutting of the cake
justine and gabby independently escape
to take baths
michael is pressured to give a speech at
one point but it is
very dispassionate and vapid he attempts
to consummate his marriage with justine
despite her being clearly non-receptive
even ignoring her at one point when she
asks if they can simply sit together for
a while causing her to flee in
frustration
claire tells justine she is lying to
everyone
while john aggressively reminds justine
how much the wedding cost and tells her
she
better be [ __ ] happy justine's boss
jack is ruthless greedy and gluttonous
during his wedding speech he's hustling
justine to meet a work deadline
he pushes her throughout the evening to
create a tagline to promote a new
campaign
her boss's nephew tim is given the
chance to exploit the opportunity to get
the tagline at all costs
in order to promote his career a task
similar to what justine was previously
so successful at he reluctantly
but doggedly pursues justine throughout
the wedding reception
pressuring her for the tagline
eventually
justine goes out onto a sand trap and
has sex with tim
unable to get the tagline from justine
tim
is later fired for his professional
failure
finally reaching a breaking point
justine resigns by telling jack that he
is a
despicable power-hungry little man and
storming off
after several hours of being alienated
from each other
justine and michael quietly agree to
call off the marriage
michael departs leaving a severely
depressed justine isolated at the estate
with claire and john furious at her
while storming back into the estate a
wedding planner tells claire the total
number of beans in a jar for a lottery
that was held during the event
early the following morning while
horseback riding with claire
justine notices antares is no longer
visible in the sky
later the reason for antares's
disappearance has become public
knowledge
a newly discovered rogue planet called
melancholia
which entered the solar system from
behind the sun was blocking the star
from view
the planet has now become visible in the
sky as it approaches ever closer to
earth
john is excited about the flyby
predicted by scientists
while claire is frightened by alternate
predictions of earth being hit and
destroyed in the meantime
justine's depression has grown worse
she can barely muster the mental
strength to get inside a cab to arrive
to claire and john's estate
and is essentially catatonic upon
arrival claire takes her sister under
her care
one day while horseback riding justine
finally notices melancholia in the sky
visible to the naked eye
upon seeing melancholia in person claire
becomes withdrawn and fearful
afraid that the end of the world is
imminent despite her husband's
assurances
she searches the internet and finds an
article predicting that earth's
gravitational pull will draw melancholia
back towards it after
its flyby ultimately leading to the
earth's obliteration
her husband assures her that these
anecdotes are written by
prophets of doom claire tries to relax
to little effect meanwhile justine
unexpectedly shows signs of improvement
she begins to bathe and eat meals on a
regular schedule again
the day of the predicted flyby justine
tells claire that the earth is evil
and that they don't need to grieve for
it claire dismisses her sister's claims
but is unsettled when justine
unexpectedly tells her the correct
number of the bean lottery from the
wedding
as proof of her clairvoyance justine
then tells claire
life is only on earth and not for long
that night melancholia passes very close
to earth
but ultimately begins to recede in the
night sky to claire's great relief
the next morning john has become visibly
nervous
not breaking away from his telescope
when john vanishes after clear naps
claire observes melancholia through the
astronomical equipment and realizes it
is actually getting bigger and circling
back
as predicted by the internet article
horrified she looks for john only to
find him dead
in the stables he purposefully overdosed
on pills claire was saving
claire releases abraham and when justine
asks where
john is claire says that he has ridden
into the village
claire calls the rest of her family
together for a completely typical
breakfast
but shortly into it claire's attempt at
calm breaks and she once again checks
melancholia's closeness
seeing that it has nearly doubled in
size claire realizes the earth is doomed
and descends into a panic
in a moment of desperation she attempts
to flee the estate with her son
but the cars will not start and the golf
cart shuts down as she attempts to cross
the same bridge that justine had
attempted earlier
returning to the mansion claire tries to
accept the inevitable
in a private conversation with justine
claire suggests that their last act be
coming together
on the terrace with wine and music
justine crassley dismisses her idea
having noticed that abraham is wandering
around the estate without any sign of
his father
claire's son leo is frightened
dad said there's nothing to do nowhere
to hide
leo says aware of melancholia's
closeness
he is reassured by justine who uses his
innocence in order to soothe him
saying that they can be safe in a magic
cave
justine cries to herself as leo embraces
her
they gather tree sticks to build a cave
in the form of a teepee without canvas
the magic cave stands in the middle of a
field on the golf course
leo justine and claire sit in the teepee
holding hands as atmospheres from both
planets begin to violently merge
leo believes in the magic cave and
closes his eyes
clara is terrified and cries profusely
justine watches them both and accepts
her fate calmly and stoically
in the last shot leo and justine sit in
meditative posture as melancholia fills
the sky behind the teepee
while claire breaks away from their
handhold and panics alone
melancholia hits sending a wall of fire
passing through the field as the planets
collide
vaporizing the trio and cutting the
screen to black
the sounds of the destruction of both
planets slowly echo and rumble into
total silence
thank you all for watching don't forget
to subscribe and hit the bell
notification for more of these videos
you